PERMISSION.
THAT'S JUST RACHEL.
CHARLIE: OKAY.
GIVE IT TIME.
[LAUGHTER]
A NEW FOX NEWS POLL SHOWS
ROUGHLY A THIRD OF AMERICANS
PLAN TO CHANGE THEIR DRINKING
HABITS AFTER A SURGEON GENERAL
RECOMMENDATION TO PUT CANCER
WARNING LABELS ON ALCOHOLIC
BEVERAGES.
ALCOHOL IS THE THIRD LEADING
CAUSE OF PREVENTABLE CANCER IN
THE U.S., AND THE CDC SAYS THERE
ARE NEARLY 200,000
ALCOHOL-RELATED DEATHS A YEAR.
FOX NEWS MEDICAL CONTRIBUTOR,
DR. NICOLE SAPHIER, JOINS US
NOW.
SO, REALLY?
DO YOU REALLY THINK THERE ARE
GOING TO BE A BUNCH OF PEOPLE
WHO QUIT DRINKING BECAUSE OF A
SURGEON GENERAL'S WARNING ON A
BEER CAN?
>> WELL, GOOD MORNING, CHARLIE.
NO, I CERTAINLY DON'T THINK THAT
THE WARNING LABEL ON ALCOHOL
FROM THE SURGEON GENERAL'S
RECOMMENDATION ACTUALLY GOING TO
THWART PEOPLE IF DRINKING
ALCOHOL.
I WILL SAY THAT AMERICANS AT
THIS POINT, WE ARE DRINKING TOO
MUCH.
WE SAW A LOT OF THAT THROUGHOUT
COVID.
BUT THE REALITY IS, CHARLIE,
ALCOHOL HAS BEEN INGRAINED IN
OUR CIVILIZATION FOR CENTURIES
UPON CENTURIES.
IF YOU EVEN LOOK TO THE BLUE
ZONES ACROSS THE WORLD WHERE
PEOPLE LIVE THE LONGEST AND
HEALTHIEST, IT'S NOT BECAUSE
THEY'VE CUT OUT ALCOHOL ENTIRELY
FROM FROM THEIR DIET.
IN FACT, ALCOHOL IS QUITE WITH
COMMON IN THEIR DIETS.
BUT WHAT WE ARE SEEING HERE,
WHAT'S BEEN GOING ON HERE IS
THAT PEOPLE ARE DRINKING MORE,
THEY'RE DRINKING A HOT MORE HARD
LIQUOR, THEY'RE HAVING A LOT OF
THOSE SUGARY ADDITIVES, AND
OWL -- ALL OF THAT IS LEADING TO
A RISE IN INFLAMMATION,
METABOLIC DISORDERS AND,
ULTIMATELY, RESULTING IN
CANCERS.
DO I THINK WE AS INDIVIDUALS
COULD PROBABLY BENEFIT FROM
DRINKING A LITTLE BIT LESS?
ABSOLUTELY.
DO I THINK THAT THE SURGEON
GENERAL'S WARNINGS ARE REALLY
GOING TO BE WHAT GETS PEOPLE TO
STOP?
I DO NOT THINK SO.
CHARLIE: WELL, I APPRECIATE
THAT.
THAT THAT MAKES ME FEEL A WHOLE
LOT BETTER.
I WAS NERVOUS ABOUT THIS.
BUT FAR MORE CONCERNING TO ME
ANY IFWAY WITH IS THIS -- ANYWAY
IS THIS NEW STUDY SHOWING THAT
SMARTPHONE USE LEADS TO TO
HALLUCINATIONS, DETACHMENT FROM
REALITY AND AGGRESSION IN TEENS.
AND WHAT'S SO AMAZING TO ME
ABOUT THIS AS YOUNG AS 13 YEARS
OLD, WHERE DOES THE AGGRESSION
COME FROM?
>> WELL, CHARLIE, SO THIS IS --
WHAT YOU'RE REFERRING TO RIGHT
NOW IS A CITIED STUDY LOOKING AT
OVER 10,000 ADOLESCENTS AGES
13-17 IN THE UNITED STATES AND
ACROSS INDIA.
AND WHAT THEY HAVE SEEN IS THAT
THESE KIDS ARE REPORTING
HALLUCINATIONS, SPECIFICALLY IF
THEY SPEND A LOT OF TIME ON
VIDEO GAMES AND SOCIAL MEDIA.
WHY IS THIS HAPPENING IN THIS
ACTUALLY IS NOT SURPRISING.
THINK ABOUT THESE GAMES THAT
THAT THEY PLAY.
THEY'RE HIGH LEVELS OF VIOLENCE.
THEY'RE ALL OF A SUDDEN HAVING
DIFFICULTY PERCEIVING WHAT IS
REAL, WHAT IS NOT.
WE'RE SEEING AN UPTICK IN
VIOLENCE IN ADOLESCENTS.
WE SEE IT IN SCHOOL,
CYBERBULLYING AND OTHERS.
ONE OF THE THINGS I FOUND VERY
CONCERNING, CHARLIE, IS A FACT
THAT ABOUT A THIRD OF THE KIDS,
FEMALES MORE THAN MALES OR WERE
REPORTING SUICIDAL THOUGHTS.
AT THIS POINT I THINK THE
EVIDENCE IS OVERWHELMING, OUR
INCREASED DIGITAL USE, IT CAN
THE ALL HAVE DETRIMENTS
SPECIFICALLY HEN IT COMES TO --
WHEN IT COMES TO CHILDREN.
ME AS A MOM OF THREE AND A
PHYSICIAN, I TRY TO KEEP KIDS
OFF THE DEVICES AS MUCH AS
POSSIBLE.
MY KIDS DO NOT GET THEIR
ELECTRONICS DURING THE WEEK.
WE TRY TO GO ON, ANY SORT OF
VACATION WE GET RID OF THE
ELECTRONICS.
THESE ARE HEAVILY ADDICTIVE.
WE'VE SEEN WITH BRAIN IMAGING
MRI THAT IT DOES ALTER THEIR
BRAIN CHEM CAN CALLS --
CHEMICALS, SO IT IS THE NOT
SURPRISING THE MENTAL HEALTH
EFFECTS, BUT IT REALLY IS
THWARTING THEIR SOCIALIZATION
SKILLS AND JUST THEIR BECOMING
ADULTS.
IT IS, IT IS ALTERING THEIR
BRAIN.
CHARLIE: IT REALLY IS AMAZING.
IT'S KIND OF THE WORLD'S LARGEST
HUMAN EXPERIMENT IN HUMAN
HISTORY.
NOW, I WAS TOLD BY A LITTLE
BIRDIE THAT TODAY IS YOUR
BIRTHDAY.
IS THAT POSSIBLE --
>> IT IS MY BIRTHDAY.
THAT.
[LAUGHTER]
YES, IT'S.
CHARLIE: WELL, HAPPY 30TH
BIRTHDAY.
[LAUGHTER]
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH, CHARLIE.
MY SON'S TURNING 25 THIS YEAR AS
WELL, BUT IT'S DEFINITELY MY
30TH.
[LAUGHTER]
IF.
CHARLIE: WELL, YOU LOOK LIKE
YOU'RE 30.
IT'S BECAUSE OF THE HEALTHY
EATING AND THE MODERATE DRINKING
AND STAYING OFF YOUR STUPID --
>> EVERYTHING IN MODERATION,
CHARLIE.
LIVE YOUR HAPPIEST AND
HEALTHIEST LIF